user/v-danwesley/writer pass on "Get started debugging JavaScript" (#2309)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/javascript/index.md

The first step in debugging is to find a sequence of actions that consistently reproduce a bug.

1. Open the demo webpage [Get Started Debugging JavaScript](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-js-get-started/) in a new window or tab.  To open the webpage, right-click the link.  Or, press and hold `Ctrl` (for Windows, Linux) or `Command` (for macOS), and then click the link.

   <!-- You can view the source files for the Debugging demo at the [MicrosoftEdge/Demos > devtools-js-get-started](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/Demos/tree/main/devtools-js-get-started) repo folder. -->

1. Enter `5` in the **Number 1** text box.

1. Enter `1` in the **Number 2** text box.

1. Click **Add Number 1 and Number 2**.  The label below the button says `5 + 1 = 51`.  The result should be `6`.  Next, go to [Step 2: Get familiar with the Sources tool UI](#step-2-get-familiar-with-the-sources-tool-ui) to start fixing the addition error that's the bug.

   ![5 + 1 results in 51, but should be 6](../media/javascript-js-demo-bad.msft.png)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 2: Get familiar with the Sources tool UI

> DevTools provides several tools for different tasks.  These tasks include changing CSS, profiling page-load performance, and monitoring network requests.  The **Sources** tool is where you debug JavaScript.

Reviewer: Dan wrote on PR main page:
line 49 Sources tool opens on file named index and lists get-started.js

Author: @mikehoffms look at the doc preview page. You'll see that all the images are refreshed
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/javascript/?branch=pr-en-us-2309

Reviewer: @dan-wesley - the main page of this PR has your comment, "line 49 Sources tool opens on file named index and lists get-started.js".  Is that comment needed anymore?  Do you see menuitems to Hide that comment because Resolved?  If feasible, pls click Resolve/Close button on the present comment thread.

   limitations under the License.  -->
# Get started debugging JavaScript

This article teaches you the basic workflow for debugging any JavaScript issue using DevTools.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 1: Reproduce the bug

The first step in debugging is to find a sequence of actions that consistently reproduce a bug.

> 1. Open Microsoft Edge in InPrivate Mode. InPrivate Mode ensures that Microsoft Edge runs in a clean state. For more information, see [Browse InPrivate in Microsoft Edge](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/browse-inprivate-in-microsoft-edge-cd2c9a48-0bc4-b98e-5e46-ac40c84e27e2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open Microsoft Edge in InPrivate Mode. InPrivate Mode ensures that Microsoft Edge runs in a clean state. For more information, see [Browse InPrivate in Microsoft Edge](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/browse-inprivate-in-microsoft-edge-cd2c9a48-0bc4-b98e-5e46-ac40c84e27e2).
```

> 1. Open the demo webpage [Get Started Debugging JavaScript](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-js-get-started/) in a new window or tab.  To open the webpage, right-click the linK and select "Open link in new tab" or "Open link in new Window" on the popup window.  Alternatively you can press and hold `Ctrl` (for Windows, Linux) or `Command` (for macOS), and then click the link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open the demo webpage [Get Started Debugging JavaScript](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-js-get-started/) in a new window or tab.  To open the webpage, right-click the link and then select "Open link in new tab" or "Open link in new window".  Or, press and hold `Ctrl` (Windows, Linux) or `Command` (macOS), and then click the link.
```

![The 3 parts of the Sources tool UI.](../media/javascript-sources-sections-annotated.msft.png)

*  The **Navigator** pane (the first pane beside the activity bar).  Every file that the webpage requests is listed here.

*  The **Editor** pane (the second pane to the right, beside the **Navigator** pane).  After you select a file in the **Navigator** pane, this pane displays the contents of the file.

*  The **Debugger** pane (the third pane to the right, beside the **Editor** pane).  This pane provides tools for inspecting the JavaScript for the webpage.  If your DevTools window is wide, this pane is displayed to the right of the **Editor** pane.

> <!-- ====================================================================== -->

Reviewer: Dan wrote on PR main page:
line 119 not sure who needs to follow up on this "todo" or when

Author: thanks

   - `addend1` = "5"
   - `addend2` = "1"
   - `sum` = "51"

   ![DevTools pauses on the line-of-code breakpoint on line 34.](../media/javascript-sources-breakpoint-paused.msft.png)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 6: Check variable values

The values of `addend1`, `addend2`, and `sum` look suspicious.  These values are wrapped in quotes, which means each value is a string. This is a good clue to the cause of the bug.  The next step is to gather more information about these variable values.  DevTools provides many tools for examining variable values.

#### Method 1: The Scope pane

If you pause on a line of code, the **Scope** pane displays the local and global variables that are currently defined, along with the value of each variable.  It also displays closure variables, as applicable.  Double-click a variable value to edit it.  If you don't pause on a line of code, the **Scope** pane is empty.

![The Scope pane.](../media/javascript-sources-breakpoint-paused-scope.msft.png)

> #### Method 2: Watch Expressions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Method 2: Watch expressions
```

> The **Watch** pane allows you to monitor the values of variables (such as `sum`) or expressions (such as `typeof sum`).  You can store any valid JavaScript expression in a Watch Expression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Watch** pane allows you to monitor the values of variables (such as `sum`) or expressions (such as `typeof sum`).  You can store any valid JavaScript expression in a watch expression.
```
UI uses lowercase

1. Select the **Watch** tab.

1. Click **Add watch expression** (![Add watch expression.](../media/add-expression-icon.msft.png)).

1. Type `typeof sum`.

1. Press `Enter`.  DevTools displays `typeof sum: "string"`.  The value to the right of the colon is the result of your watch expression.

> [!NOTE]
> In the following screenshot, the watch expression `typeof sum` is displayed in the **Watch** pane.  If your DevTools window is wide, the **Watch** pane is displayed within the **Debugger** pane, which then appears on the right.

![The Watch pane.](../media/javascript-sources-breakpoint-paused-watch.msft.png)

As suspected, `sum` is being evaluated as a string, when it should be a number.  You now confirmed value type is the cause of the bug.

#### Method 3: The Console

The **Console** allows you to view `console.log()` output.  You can also use the **Console** to evaluate arbitrary JavaScript statements while the debugger is paused at a code statement.  For debugging, you can use the **Console** to test potential fixes for bugs.

> 1. If the **Console** tool is closed, press `Esc` to open it.  The **Console** tool opens in the top pane of the DevTools window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If the **Console** tool is closed, press `Esc` to open it.  The **Console** tool opens in the lower pane of the DevTools window.
```
I tested Esc, always opens in lower pane on my machine if I open it by pressing Esc

Author: done

> 1. Press `Enter`.  DevTools displays `typeof sum: "string"`.  The value to the right of the colon is the result of your Watch Expression.

Reviewer: Dan wrote on PR main page:
line 178. unable to add watch expression @JasonAndrewWriter maybe Patrick knows someone who can follow up on this issue

Author: thanks

Reviewer: pls close this comment.
Latest: 
https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/2309/files

> 1. Press `Enter`.  DevTools displays `typeof sum: "string"`.  The value to the right of the colon is the result of your Watch Expression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Press `Enter`.  DevTools displays `typeof sum: "string"`.  The value to the right of the colon is the result of your watch expression.
```

> [!NOTE]

> > In the following screenshot, the `typeof sum` Watch Expression is displayed in the **Watch** pane.  If your DevTools window is wide, the **Watch** pane is displayed within the **Debugger** pane, which then appears on the right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> In the following screenshot, the watch expression `typeof sum` is displayed in the **Watch** pane.  If your DevTools window is wide, the **Watch** pane is displayed within the **Debugger** pane, which then appears on the right.
```

1. Press `Ctrl`+`S` (Windows, Linux) or `Command`+`S` (macOS) to save your change.

> 1. Click **Deactivate breakpoints** (![Deactivate breakpoints.](../media/deactivate-breakpoints-button-icon.msft.png)).  It changes blue to indicate the option is active.  While **Deactivate breakpoints** is set, DevTools ignores any breakpoints you set. The next screenshot shows the results of the demo where the bug is fixed after updating `var sum` and deactivating the breakpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Deactivate breakpoints** (![Deactivate breakpoints.](../media/deactivate-breakpoints-button-icon.msft.png)).  The breakpoint's icon changes to blue to indicate that the breakpoint is inactive.  While **Deactivate breakpoints** is set, DevTools ignores any breakpoints you set. The next screenshot shows the results of the demo where the bug is fixed after updating `var sum` and deactivating the breakpoints.
```
